Radio Episode 5: Reflecting on Karma to
Overcome Suffering - Like Nghiêm. Hello
everyone, welcome to the
radio program "Heart-to-Heart with Ms. Phạm Thị Yến,"
broadcast for the fifth episode.
People often say that marriage is a lifelong commitment,
but building a
perfect and happy marriage is
n't something everyone can do. Many
couples find each other, but then
find ways to separate, enduring the
pain and suffering of married life.
That's why there's a saying: "Beautiful love is
n't Romeo and Juliet, but the love of an
old couple living together until the end of their
lives." Today, Nghiêm will read to
you a question related to the
topic of marriage and family life from a
woman who sent it to the program.
A question from a reader who wishes to remain anonymous: "
Hello Ms. Yến, I've been married for
six years and have four children, but one
passed away when the baby was only two months old. My husband is
addicted to gambling and is very
unfaithful, causing me great suffering. Before, I was a
polite and respectful person."
Later, I started to love
everyone around me, but the suffering my
husband and his family brought made
me stiff and less polite. My
husband gambles and
doesn't bring money home to support the
family. My children are often sick and have to go to the
hospital, and I have to take care of them all by myself.
Sometimes we
argue, but because of the children, I overlook it so they can have both parents.
Besides gambling, my husband has been having affairs
for years. I've caught him many times
texting and flirting with many women,
but after that, they stopped,
so I didn't
investigate. But this time, he's deeply in love with
another girl, and when I confronted him, he
hit me. Before I found out, he
treated me normally, but
since I found out, he only apologizes
to brush it off. They still contact
each other, and
when he comes home, he always portrays
himself as a model husband and says
he's done nothing with her.
I feel so miserable, and I always
think to myself that I am...  I've
always lived for my family, so why did I end up with
such a terrible person? While my three children were
sick and hospitalized one after
another, he was having an affair and then cheated me out of
my money. Thinking about
this, I can't forgive him, and I
just think, "My life is so miserable, I should get a
divorce."
But I love my children, so I ca
n't bring myself to divorce. And if I stay
with him, I'll only feel resentment and hatred. Please give
me some advice on
what I should do.
From afar, marriage seems
like a drop of honey, but up close, we
see it's full of tears. Many
women wonder why they ca
n't get married. Why am I suffering
so much? Why is
my husband like
this? Some marriages are impossible to maintain, impossible to
let go of,
leaving both partners in pain and torment,
unable to find a way
out.
In this woman's case, should she
continue the marriage for the sake of her children, or
should she let go to free
herself? Below, Nghiêm will read
Ms. Phạm's advice.  Thi Yen sent this
to you: Hello, dear. If, when you encounter
something painful or very painful, you always
look for the cause of your suffering to be from
others, then you will suffer even
more. Because you are already suffering from the present, and you suffer even more
because of the burning hatred in your mind. That
is a lack of wisdom that makes you
suffer even more. If you are wise, you
will suffer less. Currently, you want to be
patient for the sake of your child's happiness, so
you should have a way of thinking that you can
practice to improve the situation. The steps
you should practice are as follows: First,
reflect on your karma. What your
husband is doing to you is the result of
your actions from previous lives.
Second, reflect on your husband's karma. Your husband
will have the
same or even worse results in future lives.
Third, reflect on your mind when creating
karma. When your husband is creating karma, his mind
is deceitful, heartless, and meaningless.
Your mind when creating karma is also unwholesome and
reprehensible.
Next, you should cultivate a repentant heart.
Whenever you feel unwell, think of
your spouse from past
lives.  Before, they were once resentful and hateful towards
me, but in the end, I should develop a loving heart.
Because I was once wicked, I do
n't blame my husband for being wicked towards me. I should
cultivate compassion because he will also
suffer later. At this moment, my heart has escaped the
suffering of hatred, beginning the process of handling
situations through the lens of karma and
transformation. Because I have wronged my
spouse, now I only receive
20 minutes of their affection. Be
happy with that amount of affection, so there's
no need to ask where I'm going, when I'll be back, or when I'm leaving.
Just tell me when you'll be back
and open the door. That's how to increase my
husband's affection for me through forgiveness
and wise patience.
Logically, when they are with me, they see less
nagging, making them less annoyed.
The more nagging and annoying I am, the
more they will seek loving words from
outside,
expressing genuine affection. I
love my children and family, so I patiently
endure my husband's bad behavior. If he
doesn't bring money home, my children and I will eat
sparingly, as long as we have a family.  Let
your children not need to ask for money or
borrow money to spend; that will maintain harmony
in the
family. This will create a habit of wanting less,
knowing contentment, and your mind will be
more peaceful. You should still care for your parents-in-law;
they are your support and also a place
for your spiritual cultivation. You should pay attention to
ancestral worship and focus on creating
merit to dedicate to the beings
you have harmed, causing them
suffering according to karma. Neither you nor your children will
have your husband's affection, so
you should cultivate yourself and find ways for your children to love their
father. Only then can you change the karmic consequences. To reap the
rewards, you must sow the seeds and nurture the plants. To
change karma, you must be patient and
cultivate. It's difficult because you're not yet used to
contemplative thinking. But if you are diligent, you will get
used to it and soon reap the benefits. Only when your husband is
abusive and causes too much economic harm
and insults your parents should
you let go. These are
the words of advice from Ms. Pham Thi Yen to
the question sent to the
program. Indeed, this realm of existence is the
realm of cause and effect; nothing
is natural.  Therefore, husbands, wives, and children
come together because of karmic connections. Whether
we experience suffering or happiness is also due to the
cause and effect of past actions.
If we cannot change the past, let's
change the present now so that our future will
be happier. Through Ms. Pham Thi Yen's answer, I
wish you will find the
most beneficial solution. This
fifth episode of the radio program "Confessions with Ms. Pham Thi Yen" concludes
here. If you have any difficulties
or dead ends in life and want to
share them with someone, you can send your
questions to Ms. Pham Thi Yen by
sharing them on the Facebook group "Confessions with Ms. Pham Thi Yen"
or by
messaging directly to the fanpage "Pham Thi Yen" (
Confessions with Ms. Pham Thi Yen). The sixth episode of the
radio program "Confessions with Ms. Pham Thi Yen"
will return at 10 PM
next Thursday.
Thank you for your attention.
Goodbye and see you again!
[Music]